## Joyce Stonebraker/ 9.8.2021

## Executive Summary 
The week 2 information on hardware components and data representation was explained in detail via readings, videos and exercises. The hardware section reviewed the purpose of various hardware components hard drives, memory, latency and transfer rates, solid state and hard drives, random access memory, arithmetic logic unit, control unit, central processing unit, input and output devices, logic gates and the IEEE.The data representation explained in detail the practice of converting decimal, binary, hexadecimal and color hexadecimal.
## Hardware
Hardware is one of the five components of an information system. Hardware is basically the parts of the computing device you can touch. The key hardware digital devices that you can are desktop computers, laptop computers, mobile phones, tablet computers, e-readers, storage devices like flash drives, input devices like keyboards, mice and scanners,  and the output devices like printers and scanners.
### Hard Drives and Memory
The hard drives and memory refer to data storage. The data stored on a hard drive remains permanently. These memory modules are made up of chips and microprocessors. Whereby R.A.M. is random access memory is temporary storage and is stored in the form of bits (0’s and 1’s).
#### Latency and Transfer Rates
Hard drive latency is measured in milliseconds and include seek time and rotational latency. Seek time measures the time it takes the hard drive’s read/write head to find the physical location of data on the disk and latency is the average time for the sector being accessed to rotate into the position under a head after completing the seek. The latency basically includes the amount of time it takes to find data location and access data. The transfer rates sometimes called media rate is the speed the data is transferred to and from disk media and the function of recording frequency; measured in megabytes per second. Bothe the latency and transfer rates are important to consider when evaluating hard drives for functionality for specific information system needs.
#### Solid State vs. Hard Drives
Solid State and Hard Drives a means of long term storage. The Solid State drives are starting to be used more in personal computers due to the fact they perform the same function as hard drives but instead of using spinning disk like hard drives they use flash memory that has Electrical Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory that is much faster. Even though Solid State drives are currently more expensive that Hard drives they offer the advantage of making PC’s lighter, more durable, more efficient and more reliable due to fact there are no moving parts.  However, when looking at cost the Hard drives are definitely the less expensive option and still do provide value to the user.  A win win situation maybe to find a computer that provides the two storage technologies: Solid State and Hard drives.
#### Random Access Memory
Random Access Memory (RAM) is a valuable part of the computer it allows for faster transfer of data than the hard disk. The RAM is used for processing any program that is running on the computer. The RAM  that is loaded  on personal computers  use the Double Data Rate memory modules. Double Data Rate memory modules come in different types, so it is important when adding RAM memory you add the same type. Also, it is very important to remember when the computer is turned off the data stored in RAM is no longer available. Both the hard drive and RAM contribute to the speed of how your computer works. Adding additional RAM will make your transfer of data faster and increasing 64 to 32 bit data paths will also make the computer processing faster.
### ALU and the Control Unit
The ALU and Control   Unit  are principal components of the Central Processing Unit (CPU).  The ALU is the Arithmetic Logic Unit that is a very important part of the CPU. The ALU does all the arithmetic functions of addition, subtraction, multiplication and divisions operations and logical operations.  The ALU has direct input and output access to the random access memory.  The other principal component of the CPU is the Control Unit known as CU. The CU’s main work is to tell the computer the most efficient method to work. It guides all the operations to individual parts of processors. So basically the CU informs the ALU, Input and Output devices  and RAM how to respond to instructions that have been sent to the processor. So basically the control unit is directing the system and executing the instructions entered by the user. Also it is important to note the ALU depends on the CU most of the time and the CU has no dependency on the ALU.
### CPU, Input & Output
The CPU is the Central Processing Unit and is known to be the brain of the system. The CPU includes the ALU and CU. In addition the CPU interacts with more computer components such as memory, input and output  for performing instructions.  To make the personal computer useful it has channel for receiving input from users and channels to deliver output to user. These channels are known as the input and output devices connected to the computer via ports which are part of the motherboard and accessible outside the computer.  The typical input devices are keyboard, mouse, scanners, microphones, Webcams and other type of video cameras. And the typical output devises are monitors and printers. The CPU and  input and output device are very important to the PC user. In regards to an everyday analogy of the CPU and input and output devices.  When you are pumping gas the CPU is the gas pump, the input is what you enter into the gas pump i.e. type of gas and the output is the gas being pumped into your car.
### Logic Gates 
Logic gates are a device that acts as a building block for digital circuits. They perform the basic logical functions that are fundamental to digital circuits. Boolean functions may be practically implemented by using electronic gates. In a circuit, logic gates will make decisions based on the combination of digital signals coming from its inputs. Such as an explanation of a “Truth Table” are basically used to help show a function of a logic gate such as the logic gates AND, OR, NOT and there are many other logic gates. In comparing the truth table of “AND “gate truth table to that of an” OR” table one will note the AND gate is an electronic circuit that give a high output of 1 only if all its inputs are high. A dot. is used to show the AND operation i.e. AB. The OR gate is an electronic circuit that gives a high output 1 if one or more of its inputs are high. A plus + is used to short e OR operation. 
### IEEE - Ethically Aligned Design
The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) is an association that was started in 1884 dedicated to advancing innovation and technology excellent to benefit of humanity. It is the world’s largest technical professional organization. Members included computer professionals, software developers, information technologists and many more professionals. IEEE’s basic purpose is to foster technological innovation and excellence for the benefit of humanity. And the IEEE’s focus on ethics is to strive to achieve the highest standards of integrity and endeavors to conduct business around the world in a responsible and ethical way. It is important that those who act on the organization’s behalf ensure IEEE’s compliance by adhering to the same standards and expectations.
## Data Representation
The data representation assisted in exploring various data representation methodologies such as decimal, binary, hexadecimal and hexadecimal color representation.
### Decimal, Binary and Hexadecimal
The decimal representation is in base 10, the binary representation is in base 2 and the hexadecimal system is in base 16. (Hexadecimal system  uses A-F to represent 10-15 to distinguish the different numbering systems.)
### Hexadecimal Color Representation
The hexadecimal color representation is a way to represent color in RGB format by combining three values-the amount of red, green and blue in a particular shade of colors. These color hex colors have been an integral part of HTML or web design and remain a key way of representing color digitally.An example of a color hex code is #ab00ff that represents= RGB color space. Hex code ab00ff is composed of 67.1% red,0% green and 100% blue. The color is describes as pure or mostly pure violet. And has a decimal value of 11206911.
This color maybe problematic because individuals with color vision deficiency will perceive this color vastly different. So this website also shows how colors will be perceived by individuals with color deficiency. This website gives a great deal of information on this color: color conversion, color schemes, alternatives, shades and tints, tones and color blindness simulator. I think all aspects of this color should be considered prior to selecting. It is important to thorough review website to understand all the information provided in regards to color conversion, color schemes, alternatives, shades and tints, tones and color blindness simulator.
## Conclusion
Overall the week 2 information on hardware components and data representation was very informative. The hardware section reviewed the purpose of various hardware components hard drives, memory, latency and transfer rates, solid state and hard drives, random access memory, arithmetic logic unit, control unit, central processing unit, input and output devices, logic gates and the IEEE.The data representation explained in detail the practice of converting decimal, binary, hexadecimal and color hexadecimal.
